Reviewer 1
1.  ANIMO is indeed suited best for modelling intra-cellular pathways, although it can also handle extracellular autocrine signalling. Upon your suggestion, we now specify at the beginning of section II A that the pathway we describe there is intra-cellular.
 
2-4. We fully agree on these comments and they have been addressed in the text as suggested. 

5.  Upon your suggestion, in the conclusions section we have now elaborated on a possible future implementation of stochastic elements in ANIMO models. Currently, UPPAAL supports only uniform and exponential distributions, but in future versions, UPPAAL developers migt extend it with support for other popular distributions.
Regarding the introduction of stochastic dynamics to specifically model ligand-receptor binding, we are not currently planning to reach that level of detail in our models. As we explain in section III , our primary aim is to provide biologists with an intuitively accessibly modeling approach. A series of abstractions from biological details reduces the number of parameters needed, while preserving cause-and-effect relationships. This modeling approach allows capturing the dynamics of larger systems in a semi-quantitative manner, at the cost of abstracting from the detailed molecular mechanisms. Modeling the stochasticity of ligand-receptor binding is currently beyond the scope of ANIMO models.

6-8. We fully agree on these comments and they have been addressed in the text as suggested.

9.  There are indeed many worthy tools in the field of computational modeling. A good review of these tools was given in [1]. Upon your suggestion we have added references to Systems Biology Workbench and CellDesigner, as well as a brief description. Due to strict page limits for IEEE J-BHI manuscripts and a primary focus on presenting a novel modeling method, a more extensive review of existing tools is beyond the scope of this paper.

[1] Herbert M. Sauro, Frank T. Bergmann, Chapter 12 - Software Tools for Systems Biology, In: Edison T. Liu and Douglas A. Lauffenburger, Editor(s), Systems Biomedicine, Academic Press, San Diego, 2010, Pages 289-314, ISBN 9780123725509, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-372550-9.00012-2.

10. Upon your comment and to save space, we have rewritten the section that included the phrase "mathematical details of the underlying model are hidden under the hood". 
It is indeed possible to access the underlying Timed Automata model. This can be done by manually opening and editing ANIMO models in the UPPAAL user interface. Figures 1 and 2 are examples of TA models that are exported from UPPAAL. This way of "personalizing" models adds much potential to the modelling power available to the user. However, detailed knowledge of the TA formalism is needed in order to make meaningful changes to the model, even in its graphical representation in UPPAAL. Currently, modifications or additions to a Timed Automata model generated by ANIMO will not be directly reflected in other models generated by our tool. For these reasons, we chose not to mention this option or encourage the user to adapt the underlying TA model in this paper. 

We thank you for your time and helpful comments, and we hope to have addressed the issues you raised in a satisfactory manner.

-----------------------


Reviewer 2
1. CellIllustrator is indeed a powerful tool for modeling pathways including some quantitative dynamics. However, the tool is not widely accessible. Its non-free nature, combined with some technical uncertainties is in our opinion a limiting factor for the widespread use within the biological research community. For instance, the .jar applications to be used from the website are not signed, thus preventing their use under many platforms.
UPPAAL is a user-friendly interface for building models with Timed Automata (Figures 1 and 2 are taken directly from the UPPAAL user interface). In that sense it is very comparable to Snoopy, which is an interface to construct Petri net models. But to most biologists, building a meaningful biological model in UPPAAL or Snoopy is not very intuitive. ANIMO exploits the Cytoscape user-interface that is familiar to biologists, to avoid direct interaction with the Timed Automata formalism, with which most biologists will not be familiar. 
We could have used different underlying formalisms with similar results, and we do not think or claim that TA are superior to other formalisms. Our reasons for choosing Timed Automata are the following: TA have been used in application areas with strong analogies with biological networks, e.g. communication protocols in information technology. Using TA will allow us to translate approaches from those fields to biology. Furthermore, the quantitative timing properties that are inherent to TA in the form of clocks make them well suited to model temporal dynamics of networks.

2. The comment that the choice of granularity can influence the outcome or behavior of the model is true. Predictions/simulations of a Boolean model (2 levels) will be limited to a qualitative behavior of the network, whereas a near-continuous model (100 levels) can be used for a quantitative description of network dynamics. We think that the difference between qualitative models and quantitative models is intuitive enough for users that are new to the tool. Intermediate granularities might indeed take more experience to be exploited effectively.
We also subscribe to the point of view that experience in the use of ANIMO will help in the construction of models. The contribution in ANIMO lies in the fact that it is made easier for people to start building formal models, even though they are not familiar with or trained in the use of formal mathematical methods.

3. The reviewer is completely right that other formalisms are also suited for modeling biological systems. In this respect, each formalism has its own strengths and peculiarities. As we said in reply to the first comment, we do not think or claim that TA are superior to other formalisms. Some of the basic characteristics of TA, such as the clocks that can be directly related to real-time, are very suited to model temporal dynamics of concurrent systems, which is one of the reasons for choosing TA. 
The implementation of TA templates that can be used for automatic translation of user input to a TA-
model is indeed an intricate piece of work. The templates allow for different kinetic scenarios, and reactants with different granularities in order to give a quantitative description of network dynamics. These templates can indeed be difficult to understand for users without knowledge on Timed Automata. However, the ANIMO interface shields the user from these templates, and the user only interacts with network representations in the Cytoscape interface.
We also subscribe to the opinion that Petri nets have an intuitive visual aspect to them. Nevertheless, we find it difficult to understand how a quantitative model of the dynamics of a biological network represented in the Petri net formalism can have the exact same appearance as a biological textbook representation of that network.

4. We agree on the fact that network representations where nodes depict objects are more intuitive than representations where nodes depict states. For this reason, Timed Automata are indeed not very intuitive to users that are not familiar with them. Therefore, we have chosen a completely different interface, Cytoscape, which has amply proven itself as a useful and intuitive interface for the representation of biological networks. This is the interface users are interacting with. In ANIMO representations, nodes depict objects, i.e. molecular species, whereas node colors depict the activity of these objects. In that way, all node colors together define the state of the network. By interactively using the time slider, the nodes change color as the objects change their activity. We do feel that this animated view of network dynamics is very intuitive to biologists. In discussions with collaborators, this feature is always perceived as very user-friendly and very suitable for presentation purposes.

5. Thanks for this very useful suggestion. We have now briefly outlined a future implementation of a parameter fitting method in the conclusions section of the paper. Upon your suggestion, we will give this implementation high priority in our future work.

6. The typo has been corrected in the paper.

We thank you for your time and helpful comments, and we hope to have addressed the issues you raised in a satisfactory manner.